# Automatic issue classifier
## Introduction
In the context of software development projects, issues provide a vital tool to describe a variety of tasks to be accomplished by the team. Four of the most common types of issues are *feature requests*, *bug reports*, and tasks related to *documentation*, as well as tasks related to an *api*. The state-of-the-art involves manual classification of issues into their respective categories. While this requires marginal effort for projects of minimal scale with teams of comparably minimal size, large-scale projects involving multiple teams from different organisations pose a much larger problem in that regard. Mislabelling issues can lead to subsequent erroneous prioritisation of issues, resulting in misplaced time and energy. Furthermore, issues left unlabelled make it harder for project managers to pinpoint specific sources of errors and bugs in the software, whose impact can range from trivial to severe under certain circumstances.
## Problem statement
These problems can be summarised into one problem statement: Software development teams require accurate classification of every software project issue promptly, calling for the need of an automatic issue classifier. Several attempts have been made to curb variants of this problem, for example by developing a GitHub app to automatically classify issues. However, several key aspects are missing from them: None of them can be easily integrated into software projects spanning multiple components from separate teams using different issue management systems.
## Our solution
We are providing a possible solution by deploying an automatic issue classifier in form of a microservice which classifies issues based on their body texts, returning the suggested label(s) most appropriate for the issue.
>For example, a bug related to an API of a component could be labelled as both "bug" and "api", while additions to documentation "docu" and "feature request".